Updated doc to show new way of defining snapshots (#6157)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/snapshot-properties.md

```
</File>

## Define snapshots in YAML

Defining a snapshot in YAML treats snapshots as a distinct resource type, separate from models, allowing for improved organization and consistency within your code.

They don't contain logic, similar to exposures, sources, and tests. To add extra logic to your snapshot, you can break it out into an ephemeral model for cleaner development and testing, and then create a snapshot of that model.

<File name='snapshots/<filename>.yml'>

```yml

# snapshots/my_snapshots.yml
snapshots:
  - name: orders_snapshot
    relation: source('jaffle_shop', 'orders')
    config:
      schema: snapshots
      database: analytics
      unique_key: id
      strategy: timestamp
      updated_at: updated_at

```

</File>
In this example, the snapshot configuration tracks changes to the orders table over time. The transformation in this snapshot is:  `select * from {{ source('jaffle_shop', 'orders') }}`.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
<VersionBlock latestVersion="1.8">

In [dbt Cloud Versionless](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud#versionless), you can use the new way to define snapshots in your project. This feature will also be available in the upcoming 1.9 release. 

```

```
</File>

> <VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

Author: ```suggestion

```

```
</File>

## Define snapshots in YAML

> Defining a snapshot in YAML treats snapshots as a distinct resource type, separate from models, allowing for improved organization and consistency within your code.

Reviewer: This makes it sound like defining snapshots in YML is _what_ treats snapshots as a distinct resource type, which is not true.

> They don't contain logic, similar to exposures, sources, and tests. To add extra logic to your snapshot, you can break it out into an ephemeral model for cleaner development and testing, and then create a snapshot of that model.

Reviewer: This isn't quite true. The logic they contain is `select * from relation`. Also, while exposures and sources don't have logic, tests do.

<File name='snapshots/<filename>.yml'>

```yml

# snapshots/my_snapshots.yml
snapshots:
  - name: orders_snapshot
    relation: source('jaffle_shop', 'orders')
    config:
      schema: snapshots
      database: analytics
      unique_key: id
      strategy: timestamp
      updated_at: updated_at

```

</File>
In this example, the snapshot configuration tracks changes to the orders table over time. The transformation in this snapshot is:  `select * from {{ source('jaffle_shop', 'orders') }}`.

> <VersionBlock latestVersion="1.8">

Author: ```suggestion
<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.8">
```

### Exceptions

> This approach also speeds up development, as it lets you run the query directly without needing to run the snapshot every time.

Author: ```suggestion

```

```
</File>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

## Define snapshots in YAML

Defining a snapshot in YAML treats snapshots as a distinct resource type, separate from models, allowing for improved organization and consistency within your code.

They don't contain logic, similar to exposures, sources, and tests. To add extra logic to your snapshot, you can break it out into an ephemeral model for cleaner development and testing, and then create a snapshot of that model.

<File name='snapshots/<filename>.yml'>

```yml

# snapshots/my_snapshots.yml
snapshots:
  - name: orders_snapshot
    relation: source('jaffle_shop', 'orders')
    config:
      schema: snapshots
      database: analytics
      unique_key: id
      strategy: timestamp
      updated_at: updated_at

```

</File>
In this example, the snapshot configuration tracks changes to the orders table over time. The transformation in this snapshot is:  `select * from {{ source('jaffle_shop', 'orders') }}`.
### Exceptions

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

```
</File>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

## Define snapshots in YAML

Defining a snapshot in YAML treats snapshots as a distinct resource type, separate from models, allowing for improved organization and consistency within your code.

They don't contain logic, similar to exposures, sources, and tests. To add extra logic to your snapshot, you can break it out into an ephemeral model for cleaner development and testing, and then create a snapshot of that model.

<File name='snapshots/<filename>.yml'>

```yml

# snapshots/my_snapshots.yml
snapshots:
  - name: orders_snapshot
    relation: source('jaffle_shop', 'orders')
    config:
      schema: snapshots
      database: analytics
      unique_key: id
      strategy: timestamp
      updated_at: updated_at

```

</File>
In this example, the snapshot configuration tracks changes to the orders table over time. The transformation in this snapshot is:  `select * from {{ source('jaffle_shop', 'orders') }}`.
### Exceptions

>   -  Create a "staging" layer on top of your snapshots for cleanup (this could even be an ephemeral model if you don’t want clutter in your warehouse).

Author: ```suggestion

```

```
</File>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

## Define snapshots in YAML

Defining a snapshot in YAML treats snapshots as a distinct resource type, separate from models, allowing for improved organization and consistency within your code.

They don't contain logic, similar to exposures, sources, and tests. To add extra logic to your snapshot, you can break it out into an ephemeral model for cleaner development and testing, and then create a snapshot of that model.

<File name='snapshots/<filename>.yml'>

```yml

# snapshots/my_snapshots.yml
snapshots:
  - name: orders_snapshot
    relation: source('jaffle_shop', 'orders')
    config:
      schema: snapshots
      database: analytics
      unique_key: id
      strategy: timestamp
      updated_at: updated_at

```

</File>
In this example, the snapshot configuration tracks changes to the orders table over time. The transformation in this snapshot is:  `select * from {{ source('jaffle_shop', 'orders') }}`.
### Exceptions

> - Best practice: snapshot an ephemeral model that contains the logic.

Author: ```suggestion

```

```
</File>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

## Define snapshots in YAML

Defining a snapshot in YAML treats snapshots as a distinct resource type, separate from models, allowing for improved organization and consistency within your code.

They don't contain logic, similar to exposures, sources, and tests. To add extra logic to your snapshot, you can break it out into an ephemeral model for cleaner development and testing, and then create a snapshot of that model.

<File name='snapshots/<filename>.yml'>

```yml

# snapshots/my_snapshots.yml
snapshots:
  - name: orders_snapshot
    relation: source('jaffle_shop', 'orders')
    config:
      schema: snapshots
      database: analytics
      unique_key: id
      strategy: timestamp
      updated_at: updated_at

```

</File>
In this example, the snapshot configuration tracks changes to the orders table over time. The transformation in this snapshot is:  `select * from {{ source('jaffle_shop', 'orders') }}`.
### Exceptions

> - Types of logic: filters, deduplication, surrogate → unique key, and so on.

Author: ```suggestion

```

```
</File>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

## Define snapshots in YAML

Defining a snapshot in YAML treats snapshots as a distinct resource type, separate from models, allowing for improved organization and consistency within your code.

They don't contain logic, similar to exposures, sources, and tests. To add extra logic to your snapshot, you can break it out into an ephemeral model for cleaner development and testing, and then create a snapshot of that model.

<File name='snapshots/<filename>.yml'>

```yml

# snapshots/my_snapshots.yml
snapshots:
  - name: orders_snapshot
    relation: source('jaffle_shop', 'orders')
    config:
      schema: snapshots
      database: analytics
      unique_key: id
      strategy: timestamp
      updated_at: updated_at

```

</File>
In this example, the snapshot configuration tracks changes to the orders table over time. The transformation in this snapshot is:  `select * from {{ source('jaffle_shop', 'orders') }}`.
### Exceptions

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

```
</File>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

## Define snapshots in YAML

Defining a snapshot in YAML treats snapshots as a distinct resource type, separate from models, allowing for improved organization and consistency within your code.

They don't contain logic, similar to exposures, sources, and tests. To add extra logic to your snapshot, you can break it out into an ephemeral model for cleaner development and testing, and then create a snapshot of that model.

<File name='snapshots/<filename>.yml'>

```yml

# snapshots/my_snapshots.yml
snapshots:
  - name: orders_snapshot
    relation: source('jaffle_shop', 'orders')
    config:
      schema: snapshots
      database: analytics
      unique_key: id
      strategy: timestamp
      updated_at: updated_at

```

</File>

> <Expandable alt_header="Exceptions" >

Author: ```suggestion
### Exceptions
```

> To carry out light transformation on your source or add logic into your snapshot, incorporate the following:

Author: ```suggestion

```

To carry out light transformation on your source or add logic into your snapshot, incorporate the following:

- Types of logic: filters, deduplication, surrogate → unique key, and so on.

> - Best practice: snapshot an ephemeral model that contains the logic.

Author: ```suggestion
- Best practice: snapshot an ephemeral model that contains the logic.
  -  Create a "staging" layer on top of your snapshots for cleanup (this could even be an ephemeral model if you don’t want clutter in your warehouse)
```

```
</File>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

> ## Define snapshots in yml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Define snapshots in YAML
```

> ## Define snapshots in yml

Reviewer 2: would it be good to have the 'define snapshots in yaml' header visible for all versions and then have a 1.8 and lower version block telling users this is only avail for versionless and 1.9 and higher?

Author: Hiya @mirnawong1 

I like your suggestion too. @graciegoheen @peterallenwebb what do you think?

Kind Regards

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!

Defining a snapshot in YAML treats snapshots as a distinct resource type, separate from models, allowing for improved organization and consistency within your code.

> To add extra logic to your snapshot, you can break it out into an ephemeral model for cleaner development and testing, and then create a snapshot of that model.

Reviewer 2: should we make it clear that snapshots don't contain logic first?
```suggestion
They don't contain logic, similar to exposures, sources, and tests. To add extra logic to your snapshot, you can break it out into an ephemeral model for cleaner development and testing, and then create a snapshot of that model.
```

<File name='snapshots/<filename>.yml'>

```yml

# snapshots/my_snapshots.yml
snapshots:
  - name: orders_snapshot
    relation: source('jaffle_shop', 'orders')
    config:
      schema: snapshots
      database: analytics
      unique_key: id
      strategy: timestamp
      updated_at: updated_at

```

</File>

> 

Reviewer 2: might be helpful to add a summary of the config since its new
```suggestion
In this example, the snapshot configuration tracks changes to the orders table over time. The transformation in this snapshot is:  `select * from {{ source('jaffle_shop', 'orders') }}`.
```

> <Expandable alt_header="Exceptions" >

Reviewer 2: non blocker but maybe this would serve better as an h3 instead of expandable? e.g. add logic to snapshots or something

> If you want to carry out light transformation on your source, or bake logic into your snapshot, you can incorporate the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To carry out light transformation on your source or add logic into your snapshot, incorporate the following:
```

> - Types of logic: filters, deduplication, surrogate → unique key and more so.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Types of logic: filters, deduplication, surrogate → unique key, and so on.
```

> ### Exceptions

Author: ```suggestion

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

> - Best practice: you can snapshot an ephemeral model that contains the logic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Best practice: snapshot an ephemeral model that contains the logic.
```

> - Best practice: you can snapshot an ephemeral model that contains the logic.

Reviewer 2: for the best practices, should we mention that they can create a “staging” layer on top of their snapshots for cleanup (could even be an ephemeral model if you don’t want clutter in your warehouse)?

> This approach also aids in development by allowing you to run the query directly, instead of executing a snapshot each time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This approach also speeds up development, as it lets you run the query directly without needing to run the snapshot every time.
```

> </Expandable>

Author: ```suggestion

```

>   -  Create a "staging" layer on top of your snapshots for cleanup (this could even be an ephemeral model if you don’t want clutter in your warehouse)

Author: ```suggestion
  -  Create a "staging" layer on top of your snapshots for cleanup (this could even be an ephemeral model if you don’t want clutter in your warehouse).
```

> This approach also speeds up development, as it lets you run the query directly without needing to run the snapshot every time.

Reviewer: I think we can remove this section (this was just my rough notes when we were figuring out which option to go with for the new spec)
